# Project Idea
For my project, I worked off of the reseaerch question, "Can humanity be trusted with nature without causing adversity?" The idea was to make a short commentary on how humans use nature to their advantage, the way humans interact with natural, previously untouched environments, the thought process and idea behind modifying natural spaces for our benefit and how we essentially may be wired to cause destruction to nature despite our efforts to preserve it in some areas. There seems to be a lot of emphasis in the present day on climate change, endangered species and how we need to treat our environment with more care. I think it’s interesting how we’re trying to take this turn after spending so much time taking advantage of the world around us with little regard for the consequences, and how we continue to do so despite being aware of the damage we’re causing. 
# Proccess Explanation
To start, I gathered a few videos I had previously taken of nature around where I live. I took several more for this project only, of more animals (mostly birds) and some places that had evidence of humans, like littering or construction. I took some of these clips on campus also when i came across something that fit, the warehouse for example. I then edited these clips together with a focus shifting from nature to humans' affect on it. I also showed this by adjusting the colors of the videos; it started out overly saturated and lost color over time. After looking through some readings related to humans and the environment (all mentioned in References section), I wrote a separate script based off of those readings that focused heavily on the damage that humans have done to the environment. I put this script over the sequence in text form and layered in sounds that would draw more attention to the human aspect of the problem, mainly sounds of construction. 
# Data Set
https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/132zSHNSCjH7piloSmha98YzmuwEnpBYm?usp=drive_link
# Reflection
Overall, I enjoyed exploring this concept and experimenting with a variety of medias to get the message across. I think it's important that we face the reality of our mistakes when it comes to expansion and using the natural land for our own purposes. Even with the current rising beliefs in saving the environment, the consequences of our actions are impossible to reverse. I wanted to bring attention to this false narrative but also make it known that we should still care for our environment or rather what we have left of it, because while we cannot change our past decisions made out of selfishness and greed we can still do better moving forward. I found that while collecting material for my "data set" or the clips I used, because I was looking for things that suited my specific needs for this project, it started to change the way I thought and viewed the world around me. I started to notice things that I normally didn't pay much attention to, like the different places on campus that mixed with or pushed nature away. I started paying more attention to the things people left behind in natural areas rather than cleaning up after themselves or taking care of the environment. I'm glad I used my own footage for this because it makes it feel more authentic and closer to the reality of our every day lives. I also enjoyed experimenting further with video and sound editing, as well as writing the text that would make the narrative more clear. 
# References/Inspiration
The 3D Additivist Manifesto SD - Dylan Schenker [(https://youtu.be/ZY55CcQ9Bxw?si=TPYPhDAzO96JoRbv](https://youtu.be/ZY55CcQ9Bxw?si=TPYPhDAzO96JoRbv)

The Myth Of A Wilderness Without Humans - Mark Dowie (https://thereader.mitpress.mit.edu/the-myth-of-a-wilderness-without-humans/)

The World Without Us – Alan Weisman

Ecology Without Nature – Timothy Morton
